---
title: Filtering Posts
order: 2
page: guides
---

Each post defines a set of metadata using frontmatter format. There are a few properties that are generated by default by **Nextein**: `category`, `page` and `date`. You can override any property using the _frontmatter_ section.

These properties are availble through the `post.data` object. You can define your own properties like `tags`, `author`, etc.


The `category` property follows the directory structure by default. If you have a post located at `posts/nodejs/start/hello-world.md` then `nodejs/start` is assigned as its category.  


The most common case is to filter posts by `category`. **Nextein** exposes a filter function to help: `inCategory(category, options)`. This method uses the `post.data` to filter posts by a given `category`:

```js
import React from 'react'
import withPosts, { inCategory } from 'nextein/posts'
import { Content } from 'nextein/post' 

export default withPosts(({ posts }) => {
  const blog = posts.filter(inCategory('blog'))

  return (
    <main>
    {
      blog.map((post, idx) => <Content key={`post-${idx}`} {...post} excerpt />)
    }
    </main>
  )
})

```

In this example we are listing only the posts with `category: 'blog'` and showing only the first paragraph by using the `excerpt` property in the `<Content />` tag.

If you have sub categories such as `blog`, `blog/react` and `blog/nodejs` the example above will only list those posts with `category: 'blog'`. To include the posts in the sub categories you need to pass the `includeSubCategories: true` in the options object. 

```js

const blog = posts.filter(inCategory('blog', { includeSubCategories: true }))

```

## Custom filtering

In case you want to use your own filter, the posts property is an Array and can be filtered out by the usual means. For instance, if we want to also filter out our blog posts by `author` we could write a filter function like this:

```js
const byAuthor = (author) => (post) {
  return post.data.author === author
}

//...

const maxBlog = posts
  .filter(inCategory('blog', { includeSubCategories: true }))
  .filter(byAuthor('max'))

```

## withPostsFilterBy

You can use the `withPostsFilterBy` which returns an HOC with a pre-configured filter. This avoid to process all  posts and filtering them in your render method.

Our blog example can be then re-written as:

```js
import React from 'react'
import { withPostsFilterBy, inCategory } from 'nextein/posts'
import { Content } from 'nextein/post' 

const fromBlog = withPostsFilterBy(inCategory('blog', { includeSubCategories: true }))

export default fromBlog(({ posts }) => (
    <main>
    {
      posts.map((post, idx) => <Content key={`post-${idx}`} {...post} excerpt />)
    }
    </main>
  )
)
```
